Adding the approaches to implement the offline repository (#219)
aau-giraf/wiki: docs/development/Offline_mode.md

   
To accommodate this there might need to add more attributes in the offline and online databases in order to deal with and keep track of the synchronization. Examples could be “last_updated_on”, “created_on”, “deleted_on”, “edited_offline” which are timestamps used to see if data should be synched or not and the “edited_offline” could be a boolean. It is also an option to use UUID with/instead of timestamps to make the synchronization have an unique id. 

## Approaches of how to (and not to) implement the offline repository

> The [api_client](https://github.com/aau-giraf/api_client) maps json output from the [web-api](https://github.com/aau-giraf/web-api) into models in which the [weekplanner](https://github.com/aau-giraf/weekplanner) uses for displaying data models. Thus, it would be essential to implement the offline repository feature in the api_client. Every model in the api_client implements an abstract class called `Model` which provides a `from_json()` and `to_json()` method for the models to interact with the web-api. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [api_client](https://github.com/aau-giraf/api_client) maps JSON output from the [web-api](https://github.com/aau-giraf/web-api) into models which the [weekplanner](https://github.com/aau-giraf/weekplanner) uses for displaying data models. Thus, it would be essential to implement the offline repository feature in the api_client. Every model in the api_client implements an abstract class called `Model` which provides a `from_json()` and `to_json()` method for the models to interact with the web-api. 

```

### NoSQL / Storing plain JSON
Our first approach was to store the string value of `to_json()` of each model in a local database. With this, you could get all models back from the database with their `from_json()` method. However, this raises a lot of errors when dealing with relational models. Consider this example:

A model `A` has a one-to-many with the model `B`. If an instance of `B`, related to an instance `A`, was to be altered, it would not be altered on `A`.

Thus, storing the plain `to_json()` string values from models is not a valid solution on related models.

> ### In-memory design

Reviewer: Not really clear what information should be stored in memory. Do you mean all objects from the database?

Reviewer 2: What do you mean by "objects from the database"?. If the sentence is "data retrieved by the web-api", then I do not follow.

If the sentence should be "objects stored in the offline database", then the hole `### In-memory design` section has been misunderstood. 

The purpose of this section is to guide the next students towards a solution for the offline repository. A way of doing this, is to have an in-memory database. Maybe this is not clear enough in the section

Reviewer: Well, there is no mention of what and how much data should be stored in memory. I'm sure the idea isn't to store all information from the online database as that is probably unfeasible, but after reading this section, it is not clear what data and how much data should be stored. Or maybe it's just me

Reviewer: btw the comment was meant for the entire `### In-memory design` section

Reviewer 2: Ah I see. Well we have no considerations or recommendations on how **much** data to store in the offline repository, since the original issue was to *make* the actual repository, not how it should be used in any context. 

Maybe these thoughts should be added to clarify?

Reviewer: Yeah, I was also just thinking of adding one sentence for clarification.

> Since mobile devices has become more powerfull and reliable, an in-memory approach is strongly considerable. All models needed for the repository is provided by the api_client making the solution slightly straight forward and performance-efficient (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-memory_database). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since mobile devices have become more powerful and reliable, an in-memory approach should be considered. All models needed for the repository are provided by the api_client, making the solution slightly straight forward and performance-efficient (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-memory_database). 

```

Reviewer: not sure if you mean "an in-memory approach is strongly **desirable**" or "an in-memory approach **should be considered**"

> However, this solution depends on the use case. If the app crashes, closes or the device is turned off obviously all data is lost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, this solution depends on the use case. If the app crashes, closes or the device is turned off, obviously all data is lost.
```

### The 1-1 approach
Another very straight forward solution is a 1-1 relational database design with the web-api. This requires the offline repository to have the exact same rows, columns and tables as the web-api.

Be careful with this solution. It seems benefiting, but do you really want to implement yet another thing for future students to maintain? If something is to be changed in the model layer, this will be your workload:

1. Alter the modellayer in the web-api
2. Migrate the database
3. Customize the unittests
4. Customize the integration tests
5. Alter the models in the api_client
6. Customize the unittests
7. Integration test between web_api and api_client
8. Alter the offline repository
9. Alter the unittests
10. Integration test between the offline repository and the api_client
11. Integration test between the offline repository and the web-api
12. Alter the weekplanner to use the new feature
13. Integration test between weekplanner and the offline repository

And do not forget that this will require 4 pull requests to 4 different projects. How will you convince your code reviewers that it works?

Our next approach tries to avoid this problem.

> ### A better json storage solution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### A better JSON storage solution
```

> From our point of view, a more complex form of "json"-storage is needed. This is our recommendation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From our point of view, a more complex form of "JSON"-storage is needed. This is our recommendation:
```

*This is an abstract description and will not describe how to actual implement it*.

> Assume that the `to_json()` and `from_json()` is bijective and all objects contains something unique (the identifier from the web-api would be essential), then you could:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume that the `to_json()` and `from_json()` is bijective and all objects contain something unique (the identifier from the web-api would be essential), then you could:
```

> 1. Create all database tables at runtime (when you go offline) from the models `to_json` or `from_json` method

Reviewer: Not sure how this would work. When offline, you cannot access the online database which is what these methods do from my understanding.

Reviewer 2: Well, off course the workflow would be
1. The user hits a button "goes offline"
2. Build the database tables and populate the tables with some data
3. Actually go offline

Reviewer: Okay, I thought this was against the wishes of the stakeholders but maybe I'm wrong. My understanding was that it should all happen automatically so that the users should never have to think about it. In any case, this workflow should probably be more explicit

Reviewer 2: Maybe the "Create all database tables at runtime" should be removed, since this my not be how one would do it

> 1. Create all database tables at runtime (when you go offline) from the models `to_json` or `from_json` method

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create all database tables from the models `to_json` or `from_json` method

```

Reviewer 2: @elaurs This may solve @antonhpalmer 's comment

2. Populate the database with the desired data

> To accommodate relations, you **may** need to assume that all relations are a many-to-many relation. It depends on how the web-api provides the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To accommodate relations, you **may** need to assume that all relations are many-to-many relations. It depends on how the web-api provides the data.
```

> To accommodate relations, you **may** need to assume that all relations are a many-to-many relation. It depends on how the web-api provides the data.

Reviewer: Why? Maybe add an explicit reason for this assumption

Reviewer 2: For line 128-129 or line 131? Github highlights all three sentences.

Reviewer: Line 131

Reviewer 2: @elaurs can you insert 

```
To accomandate relations, the web-api may need to provide data on how the models are related to each other, since it is not always possible to see how models are related based on a JSON-format. Another way is to consider every relation as a many-to-many relation.
```

On line 131 :D

__________________________________________________________________

I would have liked to include:

```
Another way is to consider every relation as a many-to-many relation, since every one-to-many relation can be modelled as a many-to-many relation
```

But I cannot find any source of that

#### Example

For the class below

```
class User
    int id;
    string first_name;
    string last_name;
    Settings settings;
    ...
    Map to_json():
        // maps all fields to json values
```

> You could expect some json output from `to_json()` to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You could expect some JSON output from `to_json()` to be
```

```
{
    "id": "",
    "first_name": "",
    "last_name": "",
    "settings": {
        "id": "",
        "theme": "",
        ...
    }
}
```

This is enough information to build

`user_table`

| Field      | Type       | Key | Extra          |
|------------|------------|-----|----------------|
| Id         | bigint(20) | PRI | auto_increment |
| first_name | varchar    |     |                |
| last_name  | varchar    |     |                |

`user_settings_table`

| Field       | Type       | Key         | Extra          |
|-------------|------------|-------------|----------------|
| Id          | bigint(20) | PRI         | auto_increment |
| user_id     | int(11)    | FOREIGN KEY |                |
| settings_id | int(11)    | FOREIGN KEY |                |

`settings_table`

| Field | Type       | Key | Extra          |
|-------|------------|-----|----------------|
| Id    | bigint(20) | PRI | auto_increment |
| theme | varchar    |     |                |
| ...   | ...        | ... |                |

> Or you could use a json database. There are plenty of json2jsonschema converters out there. (https://jsonschema.net/home) (https://json-schema.org) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or you could use a JSON database. There are plenty of json2jsonschema converters out there. (https://jsonschema.net/home) (https://json-schema.org) 
```

And of course, you will encounter collisions on related models already being inserted but this will only affect performance.

### Alternative approaches

> There are many alternatives for this cause, whereto two of these approaches are SQLite and Realm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many alternative approaches, and two of these are SQLite and Realm.
```

   
To accommodate this there might need to add more attributes in the offline and online databases in order to deal with and keep track of the synchronization. Examples could be “last_updated_on”, “created_on”, “deleted_on”, “edited_offline” which are timestamps used to see if data should be synched or not and the “edited_offline” could be a boolean. It is also an option to use UUID with/instead of timestamps to make the synchronization have an unique id. 

## Approaches of how to (and not to) implement the offline repository

The [api_client](https://github.com/aau-giraf/api_client) maps JSON output from the [web-api](https://github.com/aau-giraf/web-api) into models which the [weekplanner](https://github.com/aau-giraf/weekplanner) uses for displaying data models. Thus, it would be essential to implement the offline repository feature in the api_client. Every model in the api_client implements an abstract class called `Model` which provides a `from_json()` and `to_json()` method for the models to interact with the web-api. 

> 

Reviewer 2: @antonhpalmer will this:

```suggestion
These approaches does not consider:
* How much data to store in the repository
* How the offline repository should synchronise with the web-api

```

Make it more clear?

Reviewer: Definitely 👍 
These approaches **do*** not consider, hæhæ

Reviewer 2: @elaurs Here you go then :)

The [api_client](https://github.com/aau-giraf/api_client) maps JSON output from the [web-api](https://github.com/aau-giraf/web-api) into models which the [weekplanner](https://github.com/aau-giraf/weekplanner) uses for displaying data models. Thus, it would be essential to implement the offline repository feature in the api_client. Every model in the api_client implements an abstract class called `Model` which provides a `from_json()` and `to_json()` method for the models to interact with the web-api. 

> These approaches does not consider:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These approaches do not consider:
```

Reviewer: Last one, I promise 🦝

*This is an abstract description and will not describe how to actual implement it*.

Assume that the `to_json()` and `from_json()` is bijective and all objects contain something unique (the identifier from the web-api would be essential), then you could populate the database with the desired data.

> To accomandate relations, the web-api may need to provide data on how the models are related to each other, since it is not always possible to see how models are related based on a JSON-format. Another way is to consider every relation as a many-to-many relation, since every one-to-many relation can be modelled as a many-to-many relation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To accommodate relations, the web-api may need to provide data on how the models are related to each other, since it is not always possible to see how models are related based on a JSON-format. Another way is to consider every relation as a many-to-many relation, since every one-to-many relation can be modelled as a many-to-many relation.
```
